## Python_Challenge

#Description
This project contains two python files to demonstrate the usefulness of python in a variety of situations and how it can be better tool for processing large dataset when compared to Excel. The two files are named “main_bank” and “main_ballot” and these files can be found in the “PyBank” and “PyPoll” folders respectively. Both of these files are meant to be read using a reader, such as Visual Studio Code, to run the python code. 

In the “PyBank” folder a csv file is read into a python file to analyze the financial records of a company. The code produces the number of months in the dataset, the net profit/loss for the entire period of the dataset, the average change in profit/loss, the greatest increase in profits in a one-month period, and the greatest loss in a one-month period. These results are printed both to the terminal and to a text file. The text file is titled “analysis” and is saved to the “Analysis” folder. 

In the “PyPoll” folder a csv file is read into a python file to analyze election data. The python code produces the total number of votes cast, the candidates who received votes, the number and percentage of votes they received, and finally who won the election. These results are printed both to the terminal and to a text file. The text file is titled “analysis” and is saved to the “Analysis” folder. 

#Installation
For this code you will need to: 
import os
import csv

#Usage
I ran the code in Visual Studio Code

#Support
If help is needed with python, I recommend searching Stack Overflow for the answers to specific questions.  

#Authors and acknowledgment
This code was completed by Kelsey Brantner. I referenced the following site,   https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27260811/python-find-position-of-element-in-array, to learn about how to call the index of a list. 

#License
According to the files’ source site, “Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.”
#Project status
At this time the project is considered complete. 


